---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# GPUMD

GPUMD is a highly efficient, GPU-based general-purpose molecular dynamics software package that enables training and using neuroevolution potentials (NEPs).

You can visit the [GPUMD](https://github.com/brucefan1983/GPUMD) source repository for more details on GPUMD.

The version of GPUMD in our PWMLFF is **(commit hash 6c9e75b on Nov 9)**.

## NEP model training

### Input file settings

The input file for training NEP model is similar to the input files for Linear, NN, and DP models. The simplest input settings are shown below, specifying the **model type** as NEP, the order of atom types, and a list of MOVEMENT files used for training. All other parameters use default values and are outputted to a std_input.json file before training for user inspection. Users can also modify the desired parameters in the std_input.json file and use it as the input file for training.

Please note that the **nep_in_file** mentioned here is an optional setting. The **`nep.in`** file is the native input control file required for training NEP models in GPUMD. Users can specify the path to this file in the input control JSON file. Alternatively, users can set the NEP input parameters directly in the **model** section, as shown in the std_input.json example. This allows users to define the NEP input parameters within the JSON file itself, without the need for a separate nep.in file.

```json
{
  "model_type": "NEP",
  "atom_type": [28, 44, 45, 46, 77],
  "nep_in_file": "nep.in",
  "train_movement_file": [
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_19_300",
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_21_300",
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_23_300",
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_7_300"
  ]
}
```

The standard `std_input.json` file is as follows：

```json
{
  "model_type": "NEP",
  "atom_type": [28, 44, 45, 46, 77],
  "max_neigh_num": 100,
  "seed": 2023,
  "model_num": 1,
  "train_valid_ratio": 0.8,
  "recover_train": true,
  "model": {
    "version": 4,
    "type": "5 Ni Ru Rh Pd Ir",
    "model_type": 0,
    "prediction": 0,
    "cutoff": [8, 4],
    "n_max": [4, 4],
    "basis_size": [8, 8],
    "l_max": [4, 2, 0],
    "neuron": 30,
    "lambda_1": -1,
    "lambda_2": -1,
    "lambda_e": 1.0,
    "lambda_f": 1.0,
    "lambda_v": 0.1,
    "batch": 1000,
    "population": 50,
    "generation": 100000
  },
  "work_dir": "work_dir",
  "reserve_work_dir": false,
  "train_movement_file": [
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_19_300",
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_21_300",
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_23_300",
    "./mvm_data/init_mvm_7_300"
  ]
}
```

The standard `nep.in` file input is as follows. To obtain detailed instructions on how to configure the nep.in file for GPUMD's NEP executable, please refer to the [GPUMD documentation](https://gpumd.org/nep/index.html).

```bash
    version 4
    type 5 Ni Ru Rh Pd Ir
    model_type 0
    prediction 0
    cutoff 8 4
    n_max 4 4
    basis_size 12 12
    l_max 4 2 0
    neuron 100
    generation 100000
```

### Training

To train an NEP model, you can execute the following command in the directory where the `nep.json` file is located.

```bash
**PWMLFF train nep.json**
```

### Output files after training

After training is completed, a model_record directory will be created in the current directory. It will contain the following 10 files.

**`nep.txt`**，**`energy_train.out`**，**`force_train.out`**，**`virial_train.out`**，**`energy_test.out`**，**`force_test.out`**，**`virial_test.out`**，**`loss.out`**，**`nep.restart`**，**`nep.in`**

- **`nep.txt`**: The NEP force field file generated after training completion.
- **`energy_train.out`**, **`force_train.out`**, **`virial_train.out`**: The inference results of the trained model on the training dataset for energy, force, and virial quantities.
- **`energy_test.out`**, **`force_test.out`**, **`virial_test.out`**: The inference results of the trained model on the test dataset for energy, force, and virial quantities.
- **`loss.out`**: The file that records the error statistics during the training process.
- **`nep.restart`**: A restart file used to resume training after an interruption.
- **`nep.in`**: The input file used to initiate the NEP training process, automatically generated by the system.

Please note that these descriptions provide an overview of the purpose and content of each file.

# NEP for Lammps

waiting ...

## 输入文件设置

waiting ...

## running

waiting ...

## GPUMD

o perform GPUMD molecular dynamics with the NEP model, you need to prepare an input control JSON file. The simplest input settings are as follows.

- The path of the NEP force field file.
- Vile **`run.in`** for the GPUMD molecular dynamics control.
- An initial configuration file, which can be in the atom.config format for PWMAT, POSCAR format for VASP, config.lmp format for LAMMPS, or the extended XYZ format for GPUMD.
- Specify the model type as NEP.

For detailed file settings of **`run.in`**, please refer to the [GPUMD manual](https://gpumd.org/gpumd/index.html)

```bash
    {
        "potential_file" : "./model_record/nep.txt",
        "run_in_file": "run.in",
        "md_init_config": "atom.config",
        "model_type":"NEP"
    }
```

### Running

After preparing the above files, execute the command in the directory where the JSON file is located.

```bash
PWMLFF gpumd gpumd_lisi.json
```

After running the GPUMD molecular dynamics simulation, a directory named gpumd_work_dir will be created in the same directory as the JSON file. This directory will contain the results of the molecular dynamics execution and will include 6 files. 

**`dos.out`**, **`gpumd.log`**, **`model.xyz`**, **`mvac.out`**, **`nep.txt`**, **`run.in`**
