# 17. Water splitting

## 简介

This module is used to introduce how to use PWmat to calculate the oxygen evolution reaction (OER, water splitting), oxygen reduction reaction (ORR, fuel cell), hydrogen evolution reaction (HER, water splitting). It includes how to calculate the Gibbs free energies of the intermediate states and the volcano curve crossing different catalysis.（几种常见的催化计算,OER/ORR/HER等）

**References**

[Nørskov J K, Rossmeisl J, Logadottir A, et al. Origin of the overpotential for oxygen reduction at a fuel-cell cathode[J]. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 2004, 108(46): 17886-17892.](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/Jp047349j)

## The water splitting process: OER at anode

At the anode side, 4 holes are used, either to convert 4 OH$^-$ into 2 H$_2$O and one O$^2$ (for the alkaline condition):

$$
4h^+ + 4OH^- \to 2H_2O(l) + O_2(g)
$$

Here (l) means liquid phase, (g) means gas phase.

or 4 holes are used to convert 2 water molecules into four H$^+$ and one O$^2$ (for the acid condition):

$$
4h^+ + 2H_2O \to 4H^+ + O_2(g)
$$

in either case, this is a four step process, and we have four intermediate states (species).

### The four intermediate states

(1) * (the bare surface site); 

(2) HO* (the surface site with one HO absorption);

(3) O* (the surface site with one O absorption);

(4) HOO* (the surface site with one HOO absorption).

To make the catalytic cycle complete, we can also define a state: (5) *+O$_2$, the original state plus one released gas phase O$_2$.

if we set the reference energy at * (its Gibbs free energy is zero), then our task is to calculate the free energies of the other intermediate states at different electrode potential and pH value.

in order to calculate them, let's follow the reactions from one state to subsequent state(note, although we have used acid condition reactions, the calculated overpotentials will be the same as using the alkaline condition reactions):

$$
H_2O(l) + * \to HO^* + H^+ + e^- \tag{1a} 
$$
$$
HO^* \to O^* + H^+ + e^- \tag{1b} 
$$
$$
O^* + H_2O(l) \to HOO^* + H^+ + e^- \tag{1c} 
$$
$$
HOO^* \to O_2(g) + H^+ + e^- \tag{1d} 
$$

### The Gibbs free energies of the four intermediate states

Use the above Eq.(1), we can get the Gibbs free energy formula for the intermediate states (this is valid for both acid and alkaline conditions, although we derive it from the reaction in acid condition):


# Updating...

